'\" et
.TH ICONV_CLOSE "3" 2013 "IEEE/The Open Group" "POSIX Programmer's Manual"

.SH NAME
iconv_close
\(em codeset conversion deallocation function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
#include <iconv.h>
.P
int iconv_close(iconv_t \fIcd\fP);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fIiconv_close\fR()
function shall deallocate the conversion descriptor
.IR cd
and all other associated resources allocated by
\fIiconv_open\fR().
.P
If a file descriptor is used to implement the type
.BR iconv_t ,
that file descriptor shall be closed.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, 0 shall be returned; otherwise, \(mi1 shall
be returned and
.IR errno
set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
The
\fIiconv_close\fR()
function may fail if:
.TP
.BR EBADF
The conversion descriptor is invalid.
.LP
.IR "The following sections are informative."
.SH EXAMPLES
None.
.SH "APPLICATION USAGE"
None.
.SH RATIONALE
None.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR "\fIiconv\fR\^(\|)",
.IR "\fIiconv_open\fR\^(\|)"
.P
The Base Definitions volume of POSIX.1\(hy2008,
.IR "\fB<iconv.h>\fP"
.SH COPYRIGHT
Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form
from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2013 Edition, Standard for Information Technology
-- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
Specifications Issue 7, Copyright (C) 2013 by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc and The Open Group.
(This is POSIX.1-2008 with the 2013 Technical Corrigendum 1 applied.) In the
event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard
is the referee document. The original Standard can be obtained online at
http://www.unix.org/online.html .

Any typographical or formatting errors that appear
in this page are most likely
to have been introduced during the conversion of the source files to
man page format. To report such errors, see
https://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/reporting_bugs.html .
